.TH NET-IMPORT-SSH-FORWARDS 1 "2026-06-19" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-import-ssh-forwards \- import ssh -L/-R/-D port-forwards into net-mgr
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-import-ssh-forwards
.RB [ \-\-host
.IR HOST ]
.RB [ \-\-file
.IR PATH ]
.RB [ \-\-source\-host
.IR NAME ]
.RB [ \-\-listen
.IR HOST:PORT ]
.RB [ \-\-ssh\-user
.IR USER ]
.RB [ \-\-ssh\-timeout
.IR N ]
.RB [ \-\-no\-ui ]
.RB [ \-\-dry\-run | \-n ]
.RB [ \-\-print ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-import-ssh-forwards
harvests the
.BR \-L ", " \-R " and " \-D
port-forwards from running
.BR ssh (1)
processes on a firewall (or any host) and records each one in the net-mgr
.B forwarding_rules
table as an
.B OBSERVE kind=forward
observation. It reads
.B "pgrep -lfa ssh"
output \(em locally, from a remote host over ssh, or from a saved file \(em
parses the forward specs plus the ssh endpoint, and (by default) lets you pick
which rules to import from a Tk picker.
.PP
With no source option it scans the local host; otherwise the source is taken
from
.B \-\-host
(or
.B \-\-source\-host
with
.BR \-\-file ),
so the imported rows carry the right origin tag.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-host\fR \fIHOST\fR
ssh to
.I HOST
and run
.BR "pgrep -lfa ssh" .
.TP
\fB\-\-file\fR \fIPATH\fR
Read
.BR "pgrep -lfa ssh" \-style
output from
.I PATH
instead of running it (testing/replay). Requires
.B \-\-source\-host
unless the output already names the host.
.TP
\fB\-\-source\-host\fR \fINAME\fR
Override the source-host tag (default: the
.B \-\-host
value, or the local hostname when neither
.B \-\-host
nor
.B \-\-file
is given).
.TP
\fB\-\-listen\fR \fIHOST:PORT\fR
net-mgr daemon address (default
.IR 127.0.0.1:7531 ,
or
.BR $NET_MGR_LISTEN ).
.TP
\fB\-\-ssh\-user\fR \fIUSER\fR
ssh as
.IR USER @ HOST
(default
.IR root ).
.TP
\fB\-\-ssh\-timeout\fR \fIN\fR
ssh
.B ConnectTimeout
in seconds (default 10).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-ui
Skip the Tk picker and import every parsed rule.
.TP
.BR \-\-dry\-run ", " \-n
Parse and display the picker but don't talk to net-mgr.
.TP
.B \-\-print
Emit one key=value line per parsed rule on stdout \(em no UI, no DB write \(em
for tools (e.g.\&
.BR net-fw (1))
that want the current state without committing it.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a usage summary and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.RS
.nf
net-import-ssh-forwards --host firewall1        # scan a firewall, pick rules
net-import-ssh-forwards --no-ui --host firewall1 # import every rule, no picker
net-import-ssh-forwards --print                 # current local forwards as kv
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR net-fw (1),
.BR net-connect (1),
.BR ssh (1)
