.TH NET-ALIAS 1 "2026-04-29" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-alias \- add, list, resolve, and remove DNS aliases in net-mgr
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-alias add
.I NAME
.I MACHINE
.RB [ \-\-subnet
.IR CIDR ]
.RB [ \-\-notes
.IR TEXT ]
.br
.B net-alias list
.RI [ PATTERN ]
.br
.B net-alias resolve
.I NAME
.RB [ \-\-from\-ip
.IR IP ]
.br
.B net-alias remove
.I NAME
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-alias
manages the
.B aliases
table that
.BR net-dns (8)
consults when answering DNS queries. An alias is a name that resolves to a
machine, optionally with a preferred subnet so that (for example)
.B printer
points to its 192.168.223 IP from the internal network and its 192.168.15 IP
from the DMZ.
.PP
.I MACHINE
may be a
.BR primary_name ,
a numeric machine id, or any hostname recorded in the
.B hostnames
table; the tool resolves it to a machine_id.
.PP
.B net-alias
talks to the database directly (it needs read/write to a non-trigger table) so
it must run on the host where
.IR /root/.my.cnf
or
.IR ~/.my.cnf
holds the
.B [net-mgr]
section.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
\fBadd\fR \fINAME\fR \fIMACHINE\fR
Create the alias. With
.B \-\-subnet
records a preferred subnet so resolution can pick the right IP for the
asking client.
.TP
\fBlist\fR [\fIPATTERN\fR]
List aliases. Optional shell-style
.I PATTERN
filters by name.
.TP
\fBresolve\fR \fINAME\fR [\fB\-\-from\-ip\fR \fIIP\fR]
Show the IP an alias would return, optionally as if asked from
.IR IP .
.TP
\fBremove\fR \fINAME\fR
Delete the alias.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Make
.B printer
resolve to a specific machine, preferring the internal subnet:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-alias add printer lj-printer --subnet 192.168.223.0/24
.fi
.RE
.PP
List everything:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-alias list
.fi
.RE
.PP
Test resolution as if asked from the DMZ:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-alias resolve printer --from-ip 192.168.15.42
.fi
.RE
.PP
Drop an alias:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-alias remove old-name
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR net-dns (8),
.BR net-mgr (7)
