.TH NET-WATCH 1 "2026-04-29" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-watch \- live RTT and packet-loss monitor for known hosts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-watch
.RI [ IP
.IR ... ]
.RB [ \-\-window
.IR SECS ]
.RB [ \-\-refresh
.IR SECS ]
.RB [ \-\-once ]
.RB [ \-\-listen
.IR HOST:PORT ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-watch
is a pure consumer that subscribes to address-row updates from the manager
and aggregates the periodic ping samples. The display is a top-style table
showing per-host minimum, median, max, last RTT, sample count, and an inferred
loss percentage over a sliding window.
.PP
Loss is approximate \(em it's inferred from gaps in the ping cycle. With the
default presence interval (90 s) a gap longer than 1.5\(mu cycle counts the
missing intervals as dropped probes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.IR IP " [" IP " ...]"
If given, restrict the display to these addresses; otherwise watch all known v4.
.TP
\fB\-\-window\fR \fISECS\fR
Sliding window in seconds. Default 1800 (30 min).
.TP
\fB\-\-refresh\fR \fISECS\fR
Display refresh interval. Default 5.
.TP
.B \-\-once
Print one snapshot and exit. Useful in cron or pipelines.
.TP
\fB\-\-listen\fR \fIHOST:PORT\fR
Override the manager address.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Watch the whole network live:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-watch
.fi
.RE
.PP
Focus on one suspect IP, slow refresh:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-watch --refresh 10 192.168.15.42
.fi
.RE
.PP
Hourly cron snapshot to a log file:
.RS 4
.nf
.B "*/60 * * * *  net-watch --once >> /var/log/net-watch.log"
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR net-ping (1),
.BR net-discover (1),
.BR net-report (1),
.BR net-mgr (7)
