.TH NET-CHAT 1 "2026-06-07" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-chat \- talk in named chat sessions hosted by net-mgr
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-chat
.RI [ options ]
.I COMMAND
.RI [ args ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-chat
is the command-line client for the chat/coordination service hosted by the
.BR net-mgr (7)
daemon. Authorized parties create named sessions; the daemon records every
message durably. Software identifies itself with an SSH key (the same AUTH
handshake the daemon uses elsewhere) and the server stamps each message with
the verified identity, so senders cannot be spoofed. Humans normally use the
web UI (the
.B chat
tab of net-mgr-web), but every operation is also available here.
.PP
Each session has an access
.IR mode ,
chosen by its creator and changeable later:
.RS
.TP
.B open
any authorized client may join and post.
.TP
.B list
only principals on the allow-list (see
.BR allow )
may post.
.TP
.B request
others
.B join
into a pending state and an owner
.B approve\fRs
them.
.RE
.SH CONNECTION AND IDENTITY
A loopback daemon
.RB ( 127.0.0.1:7531 )
is trusted: posts are labelled with
.B \-\-as
(or
.BR $NET_CHAT_AS / $USER ).
A non-loopback daemon is authenticated automatically with the SSH-key
handshake; the verified key id becomes the sender.
.PP
The manager address is chosen by the first of these that is set:
.BR \-\-listen ,
then
.BR \-\-server ,
then
.BR $NET_MGR_LISTEN ,
then the
.B default
server from the
.B [servers]
config section, then
.BR 127.0.0.1:7531 .
Servers are named in the per-user file
.I ~/.config/net-mgr/config
(which overlays the system
.IR /etc/net-mgr/config ),
for example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
[servers]
default = vmhost
vmhost  = 10.0.2.2:7531
nas3    = 192.168.15.9:7531
.fi
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-listen\fR \fIHOST:PORT\fR
Manager address. Overrides
.B \-\-server
and the config.
.TP
\fB\-\-server\fR \fINAME\fR
Connect to the server named
.I NAME
in the
.B [servers]
config section. The
.B \-\-gui
shows a drop-down to switch between configured servers.
.TP
\fB\-\-as\fR \fINAME\fR
Display name for posts on a loopback daemon. Ignored once AUTH'd.
.TP
.B \-\-auth
Force the SSH-key handshake even on loopback (identify by key).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-auth
Never AUTH (loopback / read-only use).
.TP
\fB\-\-key\-id\fR \fIID\fR, \fB\-\-key\-file\fR \fIPATH\fR
Override the key used for AUTH (see
.BR NetMgr::Client ).
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B ls \fR[\fB\-\-all\fR]
List open sessions (or all with
.BR \-\-all ).
.TP
.B open \fINAME\fR \fR[\fB\-\-mode\fR \fIM\fR] [\fB\-\-topic\fR \fIT\fR]
Create a session.
.I M
is
.BR open ", " list ", or " request
(default
.BR open ).
The caller becomes the owner.
.TP
.B set \fINAME\fR \fR[\fB\-\-mode\fR \fIM\fR] [\fB\-\-topic\fR \fIT\fR]
Edit a session (owner only).
.TP
.B close \fINAME\fR
Close a session (owner only). Its messages are moved out of the database into
the on-disk archive (\fIarchive_dir\fR/\fINAME\fR/: \fBmessages.jsonl\fR,
\fBtranscript.txt\fR, and a \fBfiles/\fR directory), kept until explicitly
deleted. The session row remains so the chat can be found and resurrected by
reopening it with
.BR open .
The archive lives on the daemon hosting the chat.
.TP
.B join \fINAME\fR
Join a session. On a
.B request
session this records a join request instead.
.TP
.B leave \fINAME\fR
Drop out of the live roster.
.TP
.B who \fINAME\fR
Show who is currently in the session.
.TP
.B post \fINAME\fR \fR[\fItext ...\fR]
Post a message. With no text, or
.BR \- ,
the body is read from standard input.
.TP
.B read \fINAME\fR \fR[\fB\-n\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB\-\-since\fR \fID\fR]
Print recent history.
.I D
is a duration:
.IR Ns ", " Nm ", " Nh ", " Nd
or plain seconds.
.TP
.B follow \fINAME\fR
Join and stream history then live messages until interrupted.
.TP
.B requests \fINAME\fR
List pending join requests (owner).
.TP
.B members \fINAME\fR
List the membership list.
.TP
.B upload \fINAME\fR \fIFILE\fR \fR[\fISTORED\fR]
Upload
.I FILE
into the chat's
.B files/
directory (stored under its basename, or
.I STORED
if given), chunked through the daemon. Posts a
.B system
message announcing the upload, so it shows inline and notifies watchers.
Same authorization as posting.
.TP
.B download \fINAME\fR \fIFILE\fR \fR[\fIDEST\fR]
Download an uploaded file (to
.I DEST
or its own name).
.TP
.B files \fINAME\fR
List the uploaded files (name and size).
.TP
.B rm \fINAME\fR \fIFILE\fR
Delete one uploaded file from the chat. Posts a
.B system
message announcing the removal. Any chat member who may post may delete a
file; the operation is irreversible. (To remove a whole chat, see
.B delete
below.)
.TP
.B delete \fINAME\fR \fR[\fB\-\-force\fR]
Owner only, and destructive: permanently remove the chat \(em its database
rows
.RB ( close
only archives) and its entire archive directory, messages and uploaded files.
Prompts for confirmation unless
.B \-\-force
is given. This is the only command that deletes data.
.TP
.B approve\fR|\fBreject \fINAME\fR \fIPRINCIPAL\fR
Act on a join request (owner).
.TP
.B allow\fR|\fBdeny \fINAME\fR \fIPRINCIPAL\fR
Add to / revoke from the allow-list (owner).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Open a session and follow it:
.PP
.RS
.nf
net-chat open build --mode open --topic "kestrel build coordination"
net-chat follow build
.fi
.RE
.PP
Post from a script on another host (SSH-key identified):
.PP
.RS
.nf
echo "trilinos done, starting xyce-build" | \\
    net-chat --listen nas3 post build -
.fi
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NET_MGR_LISTEN
Manager address used when neither
.B \-\-listen
nor
.B \-\-server
is given; takes precedence over the configured
.B default
server.
.TP
.B NET_CHAT_AS
Default display name for loopback posts.
.TP
.B NET_MGR_CONF
Path to the system config (default
.IR /etc/net-mgr/config ).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/net-mgr/config
Per-user config. Its
.B [servers]
section names the daemons reachable via
.BR \-\-server ;
honors
.BR $XDG_CONFIG_HOME .
.TP
.I /etc/net-mgr/config
System config, overlaid by the per-user file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR net-lookup (1),
.BR net-report (1),
.BR net-watch (1),
.BR net-mgr (7)
