.TH NET-TP-SCAN 1 "2026-04-29" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-tp-scan \- pin TP-Link Kasa plug aliases as net-mgr friendly names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-tp-scan
.RB [ \-\-dry\-run ]
.RB [ \-\-force ]
.RB [ \-\-filter
.IR REGEX ]
.RI [ IP
.IR ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-tp-scan
discovers TP-Link Kasa smart plugs and strips on the network (using
the existing net-mgr inventory), queries each via
.BR hsx (1)
for its outlet aliases and on/off state, and updates two tables:
.IP \(bu 2
.B wifi_sockets
\(em one row per outlet (controller, outlet#, name, state,
controller_type). Always refreshed since state changes over time.
.IP \(bu 2
.B friendly_names
\(em pinned to the outlet alias for single-outlet plugs (skipped
for strips, whose top-level alias is usually a placeholder like
.BR TP-LINK_Power_Strip_42 ).
.PP
Output mirrors the legacy
.IR /usr/local/bin/tp-scan ,
with
.B [1]
/
.B [0]
marking on/off and per-outlet rows numbered 1..N for multi-outlet
strips.
.PP
Auto-find walks the
.B machines
table for entries whose
.B primary_name
matches a regex (default
.BR pwr(plug|strip) )
and skips any that already have a friendly name set unless
.B \-\-force
is given. With explicit
.IR IP
arguments, just those addresses are probed; the tool still resolves
each to a machine in the DB so the alias goes on the right row.
.PP
Probes via
.BR hsx (1):
the legacy "abyss" path (HS100/HS110) returns JSON that contains an
.B alias
field; the
.BR \-tapo
path runs the kasa Python CLI for newer plugs. Generic placeholder
names (\fBStrip_42\fR, \fBTP-LINK_Power\fR, etc.) are skipped \(em
they aren't useful display labels.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.IR IP " [" IP " ...]"
Skip auto-find; just probe these.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run ", " \-n
Show what would be set; write nothing.
.TP
.B \-\-force
Overwrite existing
.B friendly_names
entries. Default is to skip them.
.TP
\fB\-\-filter\fR \fIREGEX\fR
Override the auto-find regex. Default
.BR pwr(plug|strip) .
.TP
\fB\-\-listen\fR \fIHOST:PORT\fR
Override the manager address.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Default scan, just see what would change:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-tp-scan --dry-run
.fi
.RE
.PP
Apply the scan:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-tp-scan
.fi
.RE
.PP
Re-scan one plug whose alias you changed in the Kasa app:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-tp-scan --force 192.168.15.200
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR net-name (1),
.BR net-mgr (7),
.BR hsx (1)
