.TH NET-DIAG 1 "2026-05-14" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-diag \- host-level network diagnostics + net-mgr DB lookup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-diag
.br
.B net-diag
\fB\-\-remote\fR \fIHOST\fR[\fI:PORT\fR]
.br
.B net-diag
.RI [ options ]
.IR name-regex | IP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-diag
has three modes, picked by the arguments:
.TP
.B Local host introspection (no args)
Reports on the host running the command, without contacting any
daemon. Useful for "why is DHCP/DNS doing the wrong thing on this
box". Sections include interfaces (mac, kind, addrs, flags), v4/v6
routes, DNS resolver config (resolv.conf + resolvectl when
present), DHCP client/server processes + lease files, listeners on
the usual network ports (53, 67/68, 5353, ...), and
active/enabled state of the common DHCP/DNS systemd units.
.TP
.B Remote host introspection (\-\-remote HOST)
Connects to the net-mgr daemon at
.I HOST
(default port 7531) and runs the same host-level introspection
there via the
.B POLL host-debug
verb. The daemon returns a formatted report; this end just prints
it. Requires net-mgr to be running on the target.
.TP
.B DB lookup (positional NAME or IP)
Asks the local net-mgr daemon for everything its DB knows about
the matching machine: interfaces, addresses (with the
.B addresses.source
field showing where each lease/observation came from \(em e.g.
.IR wndrhawk:DHCP ", " kc-qernel:dhcp.master ", " 192.168.15.231:arp ),
WiFi AP association, DHCP lease records, all known names, and
open ports. Also prints a fresh local-resolver DNS view (forward
+ reverse).
.PP
In DB-lookup mode the argument is treated as an IP if it parses as
v4 or v6, else as a Perl regex anchored to the full name and
matched against
.BR machines.primary_name ", " hostnames ", " aliases ", and "
.BR friendly_names .
Multiple matches are printed in turn, so
.B 'nas3.*'
prints
.IR nas3-up ", " nas3-down ", " nas3-dwn2
in one go.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-remote\fR \fIHOST\fR[\fI:PORT\fR]
Run host-debug against a remote daemon. Mutually exclusive with the
DB-lookup positional.
.TP
\fB\-\-listen \fIHOST:PORT\fR
DB-lookup mode: which daemon to query (default
.BR 127.0.0.1:7531 ).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-dns
DB mode: skip the local-resolver DNS lookups entirely.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-rdns
DB mode: skip just reverse DNS; forward lookups still run.
.TP
.B \-\-raw
DB mode: don't pretty-translate
.IR <ip>:<method>
source fields to
.IR <hostname>:<method> .
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
DB-lookup mode: no machine matched.
.TP
.B 2
Bad arguments.
.TP
.B 4
Remote mode: cannot reach the daemon, or POLL failed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Introspect this host (DHCP setup, DNS, listeners, etc.):
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-diag
.fi
.RE
.PP
Same, but on a remote net-mgr-equipped host:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-diag --remote nas3.grfx.com
.fi
.RE
.PP
DB lookup by name:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-diag nas3-up
.fi
.RE
.PP
DB lookup by IP:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-diag 192.168.15.104
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show every nas3 sibling at once:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-diag 'nas3.*'
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR net-lookup (1),
.BR net-show (1),
.BR net-find-rogue-dhcp (1),
.BR net-mgr (7)
