.TH NET-DISCOVER 1 "2026-04-29" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-discover \- nmap/fping/ssh-fingerprint active-scan producer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-discover
.RB [ \-\-discover ]
.RB [ \-\-network
.IR CIDR ]...
.br
.B net-discover \-\-presence
.br
.B net-discover \-\-fingerprint
.br
.B net-discover \-\-print
.RB [ \-\-discover | \-\-presence ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-discover
is the active-scanning producer. It runs three modes:
.IP \(bu 2
.B \-\-discover
nmap-sweeps each network and pushes
.BR kind=host / port
observations.
.IP \(bu 2
.B \-\-presence
fpings every known IP, captures per-host RTT, pushes
.B kind=ping
observations, and sends
.B GONE
for any MAC whose every v4 address came back dead.
.IP \(bu 2
.B \-\-fingerprint
SSH-probes hosts known to have port 22 open and classifies them
(DD-WRT/OpenWRT/Linux). Results are cached for a week so reruns are cheap.
.PP
Without a mode flag,
.B \-\-discover
is the default. The daemon also fires this tool periodically when
.B [scheduling]
is configured.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-discover
Full nmap sweep of each network.
.TP
\fB\-\-network\fR \fICIDR\fR
Restrict to one CIDR; may be repeated. Default: auto-detect from interfaces.
.TP
.B \-\-presence
fping known IPs and update presence + RTT.
.TP
.B \-\-fingerprint
SSH-classify port-22-open hosts.
.TP
\fB\-\-ports\fR \fISPEC\fR
nmap port spec (default: top-1000).
.TP
\fB\-\-host-timeout\fR \fISECS\fR
nmap per-host timeout. Default 20.
.TP
\fB\-\-cache\fR \fIPATH\fR ", " \fB\-\-ttl\fR \fIDAYS\fR ", " \fB\-\-force\fR
Fingerprint cache controls.
.TP
.B \-\-print
Dump observations to stdout instead of pushing them. Debug mode.
.TP
\fB\-\-listen\fR \fIHOST:PORT\fR
Override the manager address.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Manually fire a presence cycle (the periodic scheduler does this otherwise):
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-discover --presence
.fi
.RE
.PP
nmap-sweep one specific subnet only:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-discover --discover --network 192.168.223.0/24
.fi
.RE
.PP
See what observations a discover would push, without sending them:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-discover --discover --print | head
.fi
.RE
.PP
Refresh SSH fingerprints for everything (cache may be stale):
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-discover --fingerprint --force
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/cache/net-mgr/fingerprints.tsv
SSH fingerprint cache.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR net-scan (1),
.BR net-ping (1),
.BR net-poll-ap (1),
.BR net-mgr (7)
