.TH NET-GEN-DNSMASQ 1 "2026-04-29" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-gen-dnsmasq \- generate per-subnet dnsmasq DHCP config from dhcp.master/.extra
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-gen-dnsmasq
.RB [ \-\-print ]
.RB [ \-\-diff ]
.RB [ \-\-reload ]
.RB [ \-\-out
.IR DIR ]
.RB [ \-\-file
.IR PATH ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-gen-dnsmasq
parses
.I /etc/net-mgr/dhcp.master
(and
.IR /etc/net-mgr/dhcp.extra ,
if present), substitutes any uppercase placeholders against the
.B [dhcp]
section of
.IR /etc/net-mgr/config ,
and emits one
.BR dnsmasq- <zone>
file per subnet into the output directory. Each file contains only the
.B dhcp-host=
entries for that zone, so it can be shipped to just the AP that serves
that subnet's WiFi.
.PP
This replaces the legacy
.BR fix_dhcp (1)
script's dnsmasq-config phase. The ISC dhcpd output, hosts.dhcp, and
fix_ap pushing are out of scope here.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-print
Dump generated config to stdout instead of writing files.
.TP
.B \-\-diff
Show a unified diff between the would-be output and the existing files;
write nothing.
.TP
.B \-\-reload
After writing, send SIGHUP to the local dnsmasq so it re-reads its
config directory. No-op if dnsmasq isn't running on this host.
.TP
\fB\-\-out\fR \fIDIR\fR
Override output directory. Default
.I /etc/net-mgr/dnsmasq.d
(or whatever
.B [dhcp].out_dir
is set to in the config).
.TP
\fB\-\-file\fR \fIPATH\fR
Override input file. Repeatable.
.SH PLACEHOLDERS
The dhcp.master format inherits a fix_dhcp convention of literal
uppercase tokens that get substituted at generation time:
.B DNSH ,
.BR DNSX ,
.BR DNSR ,
.BR ROUTER_223 ,
.BR ROUTER_15 ,
.BR ROUTER_0 ,
.BR TFTP_SERVER ,
.BR HTTP_SERVER ,
etc. Values come from the
.B dhcp_vars
table; manage them with
.BR net-var (1):
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
net-var set DNSH 192.168.15.252  --notes "firewall (gateway3)"
net-var set DNSX 192.168.223.104 --notes "internal fallback (nas3)"
net-var set ROUTER_15 192.168.15.252
net-var list
.fi
.RE
.PP
If any placeholder is still unresolved after the pass,
.B net-gen-dnsmasq
prints a list and exits non-zero rather than writing a half-substituted
config.
.SH ZONES
A subnet's zone name comes from the
.RI "# zone=" NAME
annotation that follows the opening
.B {
of its
.B subnet
block in dhcp.master. Hosts are placed into the zone whose /24 their
.B fixed-address
falls in. Hosts in a /24 with no zone block get bucketed into a
fallback file
.RI dnsmasq-subnet- <octet> .
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Inspect what would be written:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-gen-dnsmasq --print | head -40
.fi
.RE
.PP
Diff against the live config (no writes):
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-gen-dnsmasq --diff
.fi
.RE
.PP
Regenerate after editing dhcp.master and reload dnsmasq:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-gen-dnsmasq --reload
.fi
.RE
.PP
Stage to a scratch directory for review:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-gen-dnsmasq --out /tmp/dnsmasq.try
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/net-mgr/dhcp.master
Hand-curated authoritative reservations.
.TP
.I /etc/net-mgr/dhcp.extra
Additional reservations (typically appended by
.BR net-fix (1)).
.TP
.I /etc/net-mgr/dnsmasq.d/dnsmasq-<zone>
Generated per-zone output files.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR net-fix (1),
.BR net-import-dhcp (1),
.BR net-mgr (7),
.BR dnsmasq (8)
