.TH NET-REPORT 1 "2026-04-29" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-report \- query the net-mgr database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-report
.RI [ options ]
.I TABLE
.RI [ WHERE ]
.br
.B net-report
.B events
.B \-\-tail
.RI [ WHERE ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-report
snapshots any logical table managed by net-mgr or streams events as they
happen. It connects to the manager socket; no DB credentials needed. The
.I WHERE
argument is an SQL-subset expression evaluated server-side: column comparisons,
.BR AND / OR ,
.BR LIKE ,
.BR IN ,
parentheses, and the time helper
.B ago(\fIN\fB)
(seconds).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-listen\fR \fIHOST:PORT\fR
Override the manager address.
.TP
\fB\-\-columns\fR \fICOL\fR,\fICOL\fR,...
Restrict output to these columns.
.TP
.B \-\-tail
Stream new rows as the daemon emits them (only for the
.B events
table currently). Combine with a
.I WHERE
clause to filter.
.SH TABLES
.B machines, hostnames, interfaces, addresses, ports, aps, associations,
.B dhcp_leases, events, aliases.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
List all APs:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-report aps
.fi
.RE
.PP
Online interfaces only, MAC + last_observed:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-report --columns mac,last_observed interfaces "online = 1"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Addresses on the .15 subnet:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-report addresses "addr LIKE '192.168.15.%'"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Live tail of online/offline transitions:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-report events --tail \\
.B "  \(dqtype IN ('interface_online','interface_offline')\(dq"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Recent AP polls (last hour):
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-report events "type = 'ap_polled' AND ts > ago(3600)"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Rank the flakiest hosts by reconnect count over the last week. Counts
\fBinterface_online\fR events per (mac, machine) and sorts descending
\(em the top of the list is whoever is reconnecting most:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-report --columns mac,machine events \\\\
.B "    \(dqtype = 'interface_online' AND ts > ago(604800)\(dq" \\\\
.B "  | tail -n +3 | awk '{print $1, $2}' \\\\"
.B "  | sort | uniq -c | sort -rn | head"
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR net-scan (1),
.BR net-show (1),
.BR net-watch (1),
.BR net-mgr (7)
