.TH NET-FIX 1 "2026-04-29" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-fix \- assign a fixed IP to a MAC and append it to dhcp.extra
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-fix
.B \-\-mac
.I MAC
.B \-\-name
.I NAME
.RB [ \-\-subnet
.IR CIDR ]
.RB [ \-\-ip
.IR IP ]
.RB [ \-\-file
.IR PATH ]
.RB [ \-\-dry\-run ]
.RB [ \-\-listen
.IR HOST:PORT ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-fix
picks a free IP in a subnet, appends a dhcpd-style host block to
.IR /etc/net-mgr/dhcp.extra ,
and pushes a
.B kind=host
observation so the daemon's DB is in sync. After running, regenerate
.I /etc/dhcp/dhcpd.conf
with
.IR /usr/local/bin/fix_dhcp .
.PP
Without
.BR \-\-ip ,
the picker shows free IP ranges in the subnet (skipping dhcpd's dynamic range)
and the immediate neighbours, so you can group cameras / power plugs / etc.
near their kin. Default selection is the first IP of the first listed range;
typing a specific IP overrides.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-mac\fR \fIMAC\fR
MAC address to assign. Required.
.TP
\fB\-\-name\fR \fINAME\fR
Hostname for the dhcpd block. Required.
.TP
\fB\-\-subnet\fR \fICIDR\fR
Which subnet to allocate from. Default 192.168.223.0/24.
.TP
\fB\-\-ip\fR \fIIP\fR
Skip the picker; assign this exact IP.
.TP
\fB\-\-file\fR \fIPATH\fR
Append target. Default
.IR /etc/net-mgr/dhcp.extra .
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Show what would be appended; don't write or push.
.TP
\fB\-\-listen\fR \fIHOST:PORT\fR
Override the manager address.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Allocate a fixed IP for a new printer (interactive picker):
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-fix --mac aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff --name lj-printer
.fi
.RE
.PP
Pin to a specific IP:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-fix --mac aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff --name lj-printer --ip 192.168.223.42
.fi
.RE
.PP
Preview only:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-fix --mac aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff --name lj-printer --dry-run
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/net-mgr/dhcp.extra
Append target. Reloaded by
.IR fix_dhcp .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR net-import-dhcp (1),
.BR net-scan (1),
.BR net-mgr (7)
