.TH NET-IMPORT-DNSMASQ 1 "2026-06-17" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-import-dnsmasq \- import dnsmasq dhcp-range pools into net-mgr
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-import-dnsmasq
.I HOST ...
.br
.B net-import-dnsmasq \-\-auto
.br
.B net-import-dnsmasq \-\-local
.RB [ \-\-print ]
.RB [ \-\-files
.IR "'P1 P2'" ]
.RB [ \-\-listen
.IR HOST:PORT ]
.RB [ \-\-ssh\-timeout
.IR N ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-import-dnsmasq
scans dnsmasq configuration for
.B dhcp-range=
directives and records each dynamic pool in the net-mgr DB as a
.B kind=dhcp_range
observation (the
.B dhcp_ranges
table). This lets
.BR net-reserve (1)
know which addresses are handed out automatically \(em it leaves those ranges
uncoloured and won't offer them as free statics.
.PP
Sources may be combined:
.TP
.I HOST ...
Scan each host over
.BR net-ssh (1)
(alias resolution + keys). The scan is a single
.BR grep (1)
of the candidate config files, so it is read-only on the device.
.TP
.B \-\-auto
Scan every AP (from the
.B aps
table) and gateway (from
.BR isp_links )
the daemon knows about. Combine with explicit
.I HOST
arguments for gateways not yet in
.B isp_links
(e.g.\&
.BR "net-import-dnsmasq \-\-auto gateway2 gateway3" ).
.TP
.B \-\-local
Scan this host's own dnsmasq config \(em the
.B [paths] dnsmasq_conf_glob
plus
.IR /etc/dnsmasq.conf .
.PP
Only dynamic pools are imported: a
.B dhcp-range
with a
.B static
mode (no pool) is skipped, as are IPv6 ranges. The subnet is taken from the
range's netmask when present, else assumed
.BR /24 .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-print
Print the observations to stdout instead of sending them.
.TP
\fB\-\-files\fR \fI'P1 P2 ...'\fR
Config paths/globs to grep, overriding the defaults
.RB ( /etc/dnsmasq.conf ", " /etc/dnsmasq.d/* ", " /tmp/dnsmasq.conf ", "
.IR /tmp/dnsmasq.d/* ", " /jffs/etc/dnsmasq.conf ).
.TP
\fB\-\-listen\fR \fIHOST:PORT\fR
Manager address (default loopback / config / $NET_MGR_LISTEN).
.TP
\fB\-\-ssh\-timeout\fR \fIN\fR
Per-host net-ssh timeout in seconds (default 12); an unreachable host is
skipped rather than wedging the run.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.RS
.nf
net-import-dnsmasq --auto gateway2 gateway3   # APs + the two gateways
net-import-dnsmasq --local --print            # dry-run this host's config
net-import-dnsmasq gateway3 --files /etc/dnsmasq.conf
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR net-reserve (1),
.BR net-import-dhcp (1),
.BR net-ssh (1)
