.TH NET-ROAM 1 "2026-04-29" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-roam \- nudge mobile WiFi clients off APs they're at the edge of
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-roam
.RB [ \-\-dry\-run ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-threshold
.IR DBM ]
.RB [ \-\-cooldown
.IR SECS ]
.RB [ \-\-window\-days
.IR N ]
.br
.B net-roam \-\-list
.RB [ \-\-mac
.IR MAC ]
.br
.B net-roam \-\-list\-all
.br
.B net-roam \-\-kick
.I MAC
.RB [ \-\-dry\-run ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-roam
identifies mobile WiFi clients (devices observed associated to two or more APs
within
.BR \-\-window\-days )
that are currently at weak signal strength on an AP whose SSID is also served
by a peer AP. It then SSHes the AP and issues a deauth so the client's
supplicant picks the stronger BSS, or falls back to cellular.
.PP
Clients seen on only one AP are treated as stationary and ignored. The
mobility test is empirical \(em no OUI heuristics or manual flags.
.PP
A cooldown prevents flapping: a kicked MAC won't be re-kicked within
.B \-\-cooldown
seconds, persisted as a
.B wifi_deauth
event in the manager's events table.
.SH MODES
.TP
no flag
Survey + kick every weak mobile client.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Identify candidates and print what would happen; no SSH, no events written.
.TP
.B \-\-list
Print the watched (mobile) set and exit. Useful for understanding what
.B net-roam
considers actionable on this network.
.TP
.B \-\-list\-all
Same table as
.BR \-\-list ,
plus stationary clients. Each row is annotated by AP-count.
.TP
\fB\-\-kick\fR \fIMAC\fR
Force-kick one specific client off whatever AP currently holds it.
Bypasses the mobility, threshold, cooldown, and alt-AP checks.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-threshold\fR \fIDBM\fR
RSSI cutoff. Kick clients weaker than this. Default \-75.
.TP
\fB\-\-window\-days\fR \fIN\fR
Mobility window. Default 30.
.TP
\fB\-\-seen\-within\fR \fISECS\fR
Treat association rows older than this as disconnected. The AP poller can't
unset a stale row when a client roams off the network entirely (phone leaves
the house), so we filter on age here.
.B \-\-list
and auto-kick honor this;
.B \-\-kick
bypasses it. Default 3600.
.TP
\fB\-\-cooldown\fR \fISECS\fR
Don't re-kick same MAC within this many seconds. Default 300.
.TP
\fB\-\-mac\fR \fIMAC\fR
Limit
.B \-\-list / \-\-list\-all
output (or auto-mode kicks) to one client.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
In auto-kick mode, print why each candidate was skipped.
.TP
\fB\-\-ssh-user\fR \fIUSER\fR ", " \fB\-\-ssh-timeout\fR \fISECS\fR
SSH login + connect timeout. Defaults
.BR root ", " 10.
.TP
\fB\-\-listen\fR \fIHOST:PORT\fR
Override the manager address.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
What devices are being watched?
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-roam --list
.fi
.RE
.PP
What would a kick cycle do right now?
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-roam --dry-run --verbose
.fi
.RE
.PP
Manually evict a specific phone:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-roam --kick aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff
.fi
.RE
.PP
More aggressive threshold for a small house:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-roam --threshold -68
.fi
.RE
.SH NOTES
On DD-WRT v3.0-r56119 (and similar stripped builds) the per-client deauth
.B wl
IOVARs are missing, so the kick path is currently inert on those APs.
.B \-\-list
and RSSI tracking still work. See
.I TODO.md
in the source tree.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR net-poll-ap (1),
.BR net-show (1),
.BR net-report (1),
.BR net-mgr (7)
