.TH NET-MGR 7 "2026-04-29" "net-mgr" "net-mgr"
.SH NAME
net-mgr \- network observation broker and tools overview
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-mgr
is a Perl daemon plus a set of CLI tools that maintain a MySQL/MariaDB-backed
inventory of every device on the local network: machines, interfaces, IP
addresses, listening ports, WiFi access points, client associations, and DHCP
leases. The daemon is the only process that writes to the database. Producers
push observations to it over a line-based TCP protocol; consumers subscribe
to live updates over the same socket.
.SH ARCHITECTURE
Three roles:
.IP \(bu 2
.B Daemon \fR(\fBnet-mgr\fR(8), \fBnet-dns\fR(8), \fBnet-mgr-relay\fR(8)) \(em
listens on 127.0.0.1:7531, owns the DB, dispatches OBSERVE messages, fires
events on transitions.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Producers \fR(\fBnet-discover\fR(1), \fBnet-poll-ap\fR(1),
\fBnet-import-dhcp\fR(1), \fBnet-ping\fR(1)) \(em scan or poll the network
and push observations.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Consumers \fR(\fBnet-scan\fR(1), \fBnet-show\fR(1), \fBnet-report\fR(1),
\fBnet-watch\fR(1), \fBnet-roam\fR(1)) \(em snapshot tables or stream events
without writing.
.SH TYPICAL WORKFLOWS
.SS Survey the network
.nf
.RS 4
net-scan                # known hosts
net-show                # APs and SSIDs
net-report aps          # raw aps table
.RE
.fi
.SS Add a new fixed-IP host
.nf
.RS 4
net-fix --mac aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff --name printer
fix_dhcp                # regenerate dhcpd.conf
.RE
.fi
.SS Investigate a flaky connection
.nf
.RS 4
net-watch 192.168.15.42         # live RTT/loss for one IP
net-report events \\
  "type IN ('interface_online','interface_offline') AND mac = 'aa:bb:..'"
.RE
.fi
.SS Find the flakiest hosts on the network (last 7 days)
Counts \fBinterface_online\fR transitions per machine in the last week
and ranks them — the top of the list is whoever is reconnecting most.
.nf
.RS 4
net-report --columns mac,machine events \\
    "type = 'interface_online' AND ts > ago(604800)" \\
  | tail -n +3 | awk '{print $1, $2}' \\
  | sort | uniq -c | sort -rn | head
.RE
.fi
.SS Push roaming clients off weak APs
.nf
.RS 4
net-roam --list                 # who's being watched
net-roam --dry-run --verbose    # what would be kicked
net-roam                        # do it
.RE
.fi
.SH WEB UI
.B net-mgr-web.cgi
is an Apache CGI that renders the machine inventory as an HTML table
with click-through badges for each open port (HTTP/HTTPS render as
<scheme>://<ip>, plus ssh/vnc/rdp/smb custom-scheme links).
Install with the bundled
.I /etc/apache2/conf-available/net-mgr.conf
which restricts access to 192.168/16 by default, with optional
basic-auth fallback for off-LAN access. Enable with:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
a2enmod cgid && a2enconf net-mgr && systemctl restart apache2
htpasswd -c /etc/net-mgr/htpasswd <user>   # only needed off-LAN
.fi
.RE
(Use \fBrestart\fR not \fBreload\fR the first time so cgid spawns.)
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/net-mgr/config
Daemon and tool configuration. See
.BR net-mgr (8).
.TP
.I /etc/net-mgr/dhcp.master
Hand-curated authoritative DHCP reservations. Imported via
.BR net-import-dhcp (1).
.TP
.I /var/log/net-mgr.log
Daemon log.
.TP
.I /var/cache/net-mgr/
Per-tool state caches (AP poll backoff, fingerprint results).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR net-alias (1),
.BR net-discover (1),
.BR net-fix (1),
.BR net-import-dhcp (1),
.BR net-ping (1),
.BR net-poll-ap (1),
.BR net-report (1),
.BR net-roam (1),
.BR net-scan (1),
.BR net-show (1),
.BR net-watch (1),
.BR net-mgr (8)
