.TH NET-POLL-AP 1 "2026-04-29" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-poll-ap \- SSH-poll DD-WRT access points and push observations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-poll-ap
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ IP
.IR ... ]
.br
.B net-poll-ap \-\-auto
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-poll-ap
SSHes into each given AP IP, runs a single shell script that gathers AP
identity, SSIDs, associated clients (with per-client RSSI and per-iface SSID),
ARP, and DHCP leases, parses the output, and pushes
.BR kind=ap_self ", " kind=association ", " kind=arp ", and " kind=lease
observations to the manager.
.PP
With
.B \-\-auto
the tool asks the manager for every host known to have port 22 open (plus
existing AP rows), polls them all, and uses an exponential-backoff cache so
non-AP sshd hosts only cost one round of attempts before being mostly skipped.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.IR IP " [" IP " ...]"
Explicit AP IPs to poll.
.TP
.B \-\-auto
Discover candidates from the manager (port 22 + aps table).
.TP
\fB\-\-ssh-user\fR \fIUSER\fR
SSH login user. Default
.BR root .
.TP
\fB\-\-ssh-timeout\fR \fIN\fR
SSH connect timeout in seconds. Default 10.
.TP
.B \-\-print
Dump observations to stdout for debugging instead of pushing.
.TP
\fB\-\-cache\fR \fIPATH\fR
Override the per-AP backoff cache path.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-cache
Disable backoff (re-probe every host every time).
.TP
\fB\-\-listen\fR \fIHOST:PORT\fR
Override the manager address.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Poll one AP and see what it reports, no DB write:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-poll-ap --print 192.168.15.151
.fi
.RE
.PP
Poll every known AP-or-sshd host:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-poll-ap --auto
.fi
.RE
.PP
Force fresh poll, ignore backoff:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-poll-ap --no-cache 192.168.15.151
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/cache/net-mgr/ap-poll.tsv
Per-AP backoff cache.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR net-show (1),
.BR net-roam (1),
.BR net-discover (1),
.BR net-mgr (7)
