.TH NET-IMPORT-DHCP 1 "2026-04-29" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-import-dhcp \- import dhcp.master / dhcp.extra into net-mgr
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-import-dhcp
.RB [ \-\-print ]
.RB [ \-\-listen
.IR HOST:PORT ]
.br
.B net-import-dhcp \-\-file
.I PATH
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-import-dhcp
parses dhcpd-format
.I host
blocks out of
.I /etc/net-mgr/dhcp.master
and (if present)
.IR /etc/net-mgr/dhcp.extra ,
and pushes each reservation as a
.B kind=host
observation into the manager. The address source is tagged
.IB <hostname> : <basename>
(e.g.
.BR kc-qernel:dhcp.master )
so subsequent AP-lease observations don't downgrade these authoritative
entries.
.PP
This is the seeding path \(em it tells net-mgr about devices that have a
reservation but haven't yet appeared on the network.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-file\fR \fIPATH\fR
Import just one file. Repeatable. Default: both master + extra.
.TP
.B \-\-print
Dump the observations to stdout instead of pushing them.
.TP
\fB\-\-listen\fR \fIHOST:PORT\fR
Override the manager address.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Re-import everything (after editing dhcp.master):
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-import-dhcp
.fi
.RE
.PP
Just the extras file:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-import-dhcp --file /etc/net-mgr/dhcp.extra
.fi
.RE
.PP
Inspect what would be pushed:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-import-dhcp --print | head
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/net-mgr/dhcp.master
Hand-curated authoritative reservations.
.TP
.I /etc/net-mgr/dhcp.extra
Append-only file written by
.BR net-fix (1).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR net-fix (1),
.BR net-mgr (7)
