.TH NET-ROUTER 1 "2026-04-29" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-router \- per-subnet AP ranking for ROUTER_* placeholder selection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-router list
.RI [ SUBNET ]
.br
.B net-router set
.I SUBNET
.I AP
.RB [ \-\-rank
.IR N ]
.RB [ \-\-notes
.IR TEXT ]
.br
.B net-router remove
.I SUBNET
.I AP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-router
manages the
.B subnet_routers
table, which maps subnets to APs and ranks the APs as routers.
.BR net-var "(1) " auto
consults this when seeding
.B ROUTER_15
/
.B ROUTER_223
placeholders \(em it picks the highest-ranked AP for the subnet and
uses that AP's IP in the matching subnet, so a capable AP (e.g. an
R8000) can be promoted over the host's default-route gateway.
.PP
.I SUBNET
is a CIDR string (e.g.
.BR 192.168.15.0/24 ).
.I AP
may be a MAC, the machine's
.BR primary_name ,
or any
.B hostnames
entry; the tool resolves it to a MAC. Higher
.B rank
wins.
.PP
Direct DB access (same pattern as
.BR net-alias (1)
and
.BR net-var (1));
must run on a host with
.IR /root/.my.cnf
or
.IR ~/.my.cnf
holding the
.B [net-mgr]
section.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
\fBlist\fR [\fISUBNET\fR]
Show ranked APs sorted by subnet then descending rank. Optional
.I SUBNET
filter.
.TP
\fBset\fR \fISUBNET\fR \fIAP\fR [\fB\-\-rank\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB\-\-notes\fR \fITEXT\fR]
Insert or update one row.
.TP
\fBremove\fR \fISUBNET\fR \fIAP\fR
Drop one row. Aliases:
.B rm ,
.BR del .
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Promote the R8000 as the DMZ router:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-router set 192.168.15.0/24 wndr8k1 --rank 100 --notes "R8000"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Add a fallback at lower rank:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-router set 192.168.15.0/24 wndrhawk --rank 50
.fi
.RE
.PP
See the picks for one subnet:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-router list 192.168.15.0/24
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR net-var (1),
.BR net-gen-dnsmasq (1),
.BR net-mgr (7)
