.TH NET-CONNECT 1 "2026-05-13" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-connect \- pick + tunnel VNC, Xpra, and named services through a single ssh master
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-connect
.RI [ filter ]
.RI [ user@host ]
.br
.B net-connect
.B \-\-pick
.RI [ filter ]
.RI [ user@host ]
.br
.B net-connect
.B \-\-yes
.RI [ filter ]
.RI [ user@host ]
.br
.B net-connect
.B \-\-list
.RI [ filter ]
.RB [ \-\-listen
.IR HOST:PORT ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-connect
opens (or reuses) a single ssh
.B ControlMaster
connection to a login host and uses the net-mgr daemon's FORWARD verb
to wire local-loopback ports on the laptop to whichever LAN target the
user picks. It wears two hats:
.TP
.B remote helper (\-\-list)
Run on the daemon host (typically over ssh from the laptop side).
Snapshots the
.B ports
table and emits TSV rows of every VNC/Xpra endpoint, one per
(machine, ip, port).
.TP
.B laptop entry-point (everything else)
Drives the ssh tunnel and the picker. Default mode prints the
matching targets and exits.
.B \-\-pick
enters a persistent picker TUI;
.B \-\-yes
auto-launches the unique match (if any) and then enters the TUI.
.PP
The same binary serves both roles \(em the laptop side runs the remote
helper over ssh to fetch the target list.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Laptop mode"
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-pick
Enter the persistent picker TUI. Multiple concurrent sessions are
supported (one per pool slot).
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
If the filter narrows to exactly one match, auto-launch it; either
way enter the TUI.
.TP
\fB\-\-forward \fINAME\fR[,\fINAME\fR\.\.\.]
Activate named forwards from the corresponding
.BI [forward. NAME ]
config sections (e.g.
.IR imap ", " smtp )
for the lifetime of the session.
.TP
\fB\-\-daemon \fIHOST\fR[\fI:PORT\fR]
net-mgr daemon address from the SSH-host's perspective. Defaults to
.B 127.0.0.1:7531
or whatever
.B daemon
in the config file says.
.TP
\fB\-\-login\fR \fIuser@host\fR
ssh login (also accepted as a positional argument).
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-port " " \fIPORT\fR
ssh port.
.TP
.BR \-J ", " \-\-jump " " \fIuser@host\fR
ssh ProxyJump.
.TP
\fB\-\-pool \fILO-HI\fR
Picker slot port range. Default
.BR 5950-5959 .
Each slot is a local-loopback port the laptop's ssh tunnel will
forward; the daemon's FORWARD then DNATs it to the picked target.
All listed ports must be free on the laptop at startup.
.TP
\fB\-\-socket-dir \fIDIR\fR
ssh ControlPath dir (default
.BR /tmp ).
.TP
\fB\-\-config \fIPATH\fR
Config file (default
.BR ~/.net-connect.conf ).
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Trace ssh launch, FORWARD installs, viewer launches.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry-run
Print the ssh master command and exit without running.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage and exit.
.SS "\-\-list mode"
.TP
\fB\-\-listen \fIHOST:PORT\fR
net-mgr daemon to query. Default
.BR 127.0.0.1:7531 .
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
Include 5900-5999 / 14500-15000 ports even when service is unknown
(useful for Xpra on non-default ports).
.SH "PICKER TUI"
Per prompt, the menu accepts:
.TP
\fInumber\fR
Launch session for that target. Allocates a free slot, asks the
daemon to FORWARD it, forks a viewer (non-blocking; control returns
immediately for the next pick).
.TP
\fBk \fISLOT\fR
Close the named slot. Sends SIGTERM to the viewer (which the SIGCHLD
reaper notices, UNFORWARDs the slot, and frees it). For no-viewer
slots, UNFORWARDs directly.
.TP
.B r
Refresh the target list from the daemon.
.TP
\fBf \fIREGEX\fR
Apply a substring filter. Use
.B F
to clear it.
.TP
.B q
Quit. Every active slot is UNFORWARDed, viewer children get
SIGTERM, and the ssh master is closed via
.BR "ssh -O exit" .
The daemon's connection-bound GC is the safety net behind it all.
.SH "CONFIG FILE"
.B ~/.net-connect.conf
is INI-style. Top-level keys plus
.BI [ section ]
groupings.
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
\fB# Login defaults\fR
login        = wdkc@gateway.grfx.com
port         = 80
\fB# daemon\fR     = nas3.grfx.com         # only if ≠ login host
\fB# proxy_jump\fR = wdkc@zmc1.grfx.com    # optional ssh \-J
\fBpool\fR         = 5950-5959

\fB# Named forwards (use with --forward NAME)\fR
[forward.imap]
target = nas3:143
local  = 1143

[forward.smtp]
target = nas3:587
local  = 1587

\fB# Viewer overrides (defaults are autodetected)\fR
[viewer.vnc]
cmd = cygstart -w "C:\\Program Files\\TigerVNC\\vncviewer.exe" localhost::%PORT%

[viewer.xpra]
cmd = xpra attach tcp://localhost:%PORT%/
.fi
.RE
.PP
.B %PORT%
in viewer commands is the local slot port.
.B %DISPLAY%
is
.IR slot - 5900
(the VNC display number) when applicable.
.SH "OFF-HOST DAEMON"
When the daemon lives on a different host than the ssh login (e.g.
log into zmc1, daemon is on nas3), set
.B daemon
in the laptop config and add the entry-point's LAN to
.B [forward] allow_peers
in
.B /etc/net-mgr/config
on the daemon host \(em otherwise the daemon's loopback-only check
rejects the FORWARD request.
.SH "VIEWER DETECTION"
.B net-connect
searches PATH first
.RB ( vncviewer ", " tvnviewer ", " xtigervncviewer ", " xpra ),
then the standard Cygwin install paths under
.BR "C:\\Program Files\\" :
TigerVNC, TightVNC, RealVNC, UltraVNC, Xpra. The first hit wins. To
override, set
.BR "[viewer.PROTO] cmd = ..."
in the config.
.PP
If no viewer is found, the slot is still installed and
.B net-connect
prints
.BI "tunnel is open at localhost:" PORT
\(em point any client at it manually.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
ok / clean exit.
.TP
.B 1
no target matched (default mode with filter).
.TP
.B 2
bad args / config.
.TP
.B 3
ssh ControlMaster failure.
.TP
.B 4
daemon connection failure.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.net-connect.conf
laptop-side config.
.TP
.B /tmp/net-connect-USER_HOST-PORT.sock
ssh ControlPath socket. Reused on subsequent runs to the same login.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
List VNC sessions known to the daemon on
.IR gateway.grfx.com :
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-connect wdkc@gateway.grfx.com
.fi
.RE
.PP
Pick interactively, restricted to
.I nas3*
hosts:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-connect --pick 'nas3.*' wdkc@gateway.grfx.com
.fi
.RE
.PP
Auto-launch the unique
.I mediapc
session, then enter the TUI for follow-on picks:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-connect --yes mediapc wdkc@gateway.grfx.com
.fi
.RE
.PP
Open IMAP and SMTP forwards (no picker, holds the tunnel until
.BR ^C ):
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-connect --forward imap,smtp
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR net-mgr (7),
.BR ssh_config (5)
