.TH NET-RESERVE 1 "2026-06-11" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-reserve \- manage permanent DHCP reservations and dynamic ranges
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-reserve list
.RI [ SUBNET ]
.br
.B net-reserve free
.RI [ SUBNET ]
.RB [ \-n
.IR N ]
.br
.B net-reserve ranges
.br
.B net-reserve reserve
.I IP MAC
.RB [ \-\-name
.IR N ]
.RB [ \-\-group
.IR G ]
.RB [ \-\-notes
.IR T ]
.br
.B net-reserve release
.I IP
.br
.B net-reserve move
.I OLD_IP NEW_IP
.br
.B net-reserve autoname
.RI [ SUBNET ]
.br
.B net-reserve add-range
.I CIDR START END
.RB [ \-\-zone
.IR Z ]
.br
.B net-reserve del-range
.I CIDR START
.br
.B net-reserve \-\-gui
.RI [ SUBNET ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-reserve
manages permanent (MAC \(-> fixed IP) DHCP reservations and the
dynamic\-pool ranges they must avoid, storing both in the net\-mgr
database \(em the
.B dhcp_reservations
and
.B dhcp_ranges
tables (schema v24). This replaces hand\-edited
.RB ` host " { " "hardware ethernet" " ..; " "fixed-address" " ..; } '"
blocks in
.IR /etc/net-mgr/dhcp.master :
both tables are cluster\-replicated, so a reservation made on one host
relays to every peer, and
.BR net-gen-dnsmasq (1)
can generate the dnsmasq config straight from the DB.
.PP
Like
.BR net-show (1)
and
.BR net-chat (1),
net\-reserve talks to the daemon over the socket (snapshot +
.BR OBSERVE )
rather than the database directly, so it runs from any host without DB
credentials. A non\-loopback daemon is authenticated automatically with
your SSH key.
.SH STATES
The
.B list
map and the GUI colour each address by state:
.TP
.B free
Allocatable static \(em not in any dynamic range, not reserved, not in
use. Glyph
.BR . ,
green.
.TP
.B reserved
A permanent reservation whose device is not currently seen. Glyph
.BR R ,
red.
.TP
.B active
A reservation whose device is currently in use at that address \(em the
reservation is in effect. Glyph
.BR * ,
purple.
.TP
.B assigned
Inside a dynamic DHCP range (handed out automatically). Glyph
.BR \- ;
left uncolored in the map, since these are managed by DHCP, not allocated here.
.TP
.B in-use
Occupied (leased/observed) but neither reserved nor inside a pool \(em an
unmanaged static (or squatter). Glyph
.BR ! ,
orange.
.PP
A
.I free static
\(em the kind you allocate a permanent address from \(em is exactly the
.B free
state.
.PP
Clicking a cell opens its reserve / release dialog, which shows the address's
.B last seen
time (its last live sighting \(em DHCP/ARP/nmap/ping; \(lqnever\(rq for a
paper-only reservation that hasn't appeared on the network).
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B list \fR[\fISUBNET\fR]
Print a colour\-coded address map plus the reservations (grouped) for
each known subnet, or just
.IR SUBNET .
.TP
.B free \fR[\fISUBNET\fR] \fR[\fB\-n\fI N\fR]
List the next
.I N
(default 10) free static IPs per subnet.
.TP
.B ranges
List the dynamic DHCP pools.
.TP
.B reserve \fIIP MAC\fR
Create or update a reservation. With
.BR \-\-group ,
file it under a group label;
.B \-\-name
sets the dnsmasq host name. Warns (does not block) if
.I IP
falls inside a dynamic range. A MAC may hold only
.I one
reservation: reserving a second address for a MAC already reserved elsewhere is
refused \(em
.B move
it (below) or pass
.B \-\-force
to keep both. In the GUI this is offered as a move when you reserve a fresh
address for an already\-reserved device.
.TP
.B release \fIIP\fR
Remove the reservation on
.IR IP .
.TP
.B move \fIOLD_IP NEW_IP\fR
Reallocate an existing reservation to a different address, carrying its
MAC, name and group. Atomic \(em the device never holds two reservations
mid\-move. Aliased as
.BR reallocate .
In the GUI, use the
.B Move
button on a reserved cell (it suggests the next free static).
.TP
.B autoname \fR[\fISUBNET\fR]
Fill in a host name for every reservation that lacks one (optionally limited to
.IR SUBNET ),
taking the name from the machine each reservation's MAC is correlated to in the
net\-mgr DB. New reservations are auto\-named the same way when you don't supply
a name. In the GUI, the
.B Name unnamed
button does this for all subnets. Reservations whose MAC isn't correlated to a
known machine are left unnamed.
.TP
.B add-range \fICIDR START END\fR
Define a dynamic pool, e.g.
.RB ` "add-range 192.168.15.0/24 192.168.15.100 192.168.15.200" '.
.TP
.B del-range \fICIDR START\fR
Remove a dynamic pool by its start address.
.TP
.B \-\-gui \fR[\fISUBNET\fR]
Open the Perl/Tk map: a clickable grid of the subnet's address space,
coloured by state, with a grouped reservation list. Click any non\-reserved
cell to reserve it (the MAC is pre\-filled when the address is currently
leased or in use); the reserve dialog's
.B IP
field is a menu of every address in the subnet \(em
.B green
for free,
.B blue
for the auto\-DHCP dynamic ranges, and
.B red
for otherwise\-taken \(em with the current occupant (MAC/name) beside each, so a
machine seen at one address (e.g. a DHCP\-assigned
.IR .67 )
can be given a free permanent one (e.g.
.IR .228 ).
A
.B show DHCP pool / assigned
toggle hides the blue (pool) rows so the list is just static candidates.
The occupant shown for a leased/observed address is the machine name net\-mgr
knows for its MAC (the same name
.BR net-lookup (1)
gives), falling back to the MAC. A device reserved at one address but still
seen at another is flagged \(em
.RB \(lq "(now at \fIIP\fR)" \(rq
on the reserved cell and
.RB \(lq "-> reserved \fIIP\fR" \(rq
on its current one \(em so you can tell it hasn't moved yet.
Click a reserved cell to move or release it. Refreshes live.
.PP
The subnet picker shows discovered subnets, your local LANs, and a persistent
.B show
list, minus a persistent
.B ignore
list \(em handy when many unused subnets (link\-local, transient) clutter it.
The
.B +
and
.B \-
buttons beside the picker add the current subnet to the show or ignore list;
both are saved under
.B [net-reserve]
.RB ( show " / " ignore ", comma-separated CIDRs)"
in the per\-user config.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-force
With
.BR reserve ,
allow a second reservation for a MAC that is already reserved at another
address (normally refused).
.TP
.BI \-\-listen " HOST:PORT"
Daemon address (overrides
.B \-\-server
and config).
.TP
.BI \-\-server " NAME"
A server from the
.B [servers]
section of
.IR ~/.config/net-mgr/config .
.TP
.BR \-\-auth ", " \-\-no\-auth
Force or suppress the SSH\-key handshake. A non\-loopback daemon is
AUTH'd by default.
.TP
.BI \-\-key-id " ID\fR, \fB\-\-key-file " PATH
Identity for AUTH.
.SH EXAMPLES
Pin a newly\-added IP camera (currently on an auto lease) to a free
static address, grouped:
.PP
.RS
.nf
net-reserve free 192.168.15.0/24
net-reserve reserve 192.168.15.40 aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:01 \\
    --name frontcam --group cameras
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR net-gen-dnsmasq (1),
.BR net-import-dhcp (1),
.BR net-show (1),
.BR net-mgr (7)
.SH AUTHOR
Part of the net\-mgr suite.
