.TH NET-NAME 1 "2026-04-29" "net-mgr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
net-name \- friendly display names for the web UI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net-name list
.RI [ PATTERN ]
.br
.B net-name set
.I MACHINE
.I NAME
.RB [ \-\-notes
.IR TEXT ]
.br
.B net-name remove
.I MACHINE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net-name
manages the
.B friendly_names
table, which holds user-supplied display labels that override the
auto-detected
.B machines.primary_name
on the web UI's compact host list. Producer-set names \(em DHCP
hostnames, ARP hits, vendor strings \(em can be ugly
(\fBunknown1\fR, \fBdesktop\-amfdwjr\fR, etc.); this lets you pin a
nicer label without disturbing what producers report.
.PP
The detail page (and tools that consult
.BR machines.primary_name )
still show the underlying name, so the override is purely cosmetic.
.PP
.I MACHINE
may be a numeric machine id, a
.BR primary_name ,
or any
.B hostnames
entry; the tool resolves it to an id.
.PP
Direct DB access (same pattern as
.BR net-alias (1)
and
.BR net-var (1));
must run on a host with
.IR /root/.my.cnf
or
.IR ~/.my.cnf
holding the
.B [net-mgr]
section.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
\fBlist\fR [\fIPATTERN\fR]
List entries; optional shell-style
.I PATTERN
filters by friendly name.
.TP
\fBset\fR \fIMACHINE\fR \fINAME\fR [\fB\-\-notes\fR \fITEXT\fR]
Insert or update.
.TP
\fBremove\fR \fIMACHINE\fR
Drop one row. Aliases:
.B rm ,
.BR del .
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Pin a friendly label on a machine the producers know as
.B unknown1 :
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-name set unknown1 "kitchen-pi" --notes "Raspberry Pi in the kitchen"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Find all entries you've added:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-name list
.fi
.RE
.PP
Drop one:
.RS 4
.nf
.B net-name remove kitchen-pi
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR net-alias (1),
.BR net-mgr (7)
